## Security groups
Security groups act as a firewall at the instance level. Specifically, security groups operate at the network interface level.

### Rules

- We can only assign permit rules in a security group; we cannot assign deny rules.
- There is an implicit deny rule at the end of a security group.
- All rules are evaluated until a permit is encountered or continues until the implicit deny.
- A security group can control both ingress and egress traffic.
- By default, custom security groups do not have inbound allow rules (all inbound traffic is denied by default).
- By default, default security groups have inbound allow rules (allowing traffic from within the group).
- All outbound traffic is allowed by default in both custom and default security groups.

### Features

- Security groups are stateful.

- You can use security group names as the source or destination in other security groups. You can also use the security group name as a source in its own inbound rules.

- Security group members can be within any AZ or subnet within the VPC. Security group membership can be changed whilst instances are running.

- Up to 5 security groups can be added per EC2 instance interface. There is no limit on the number of EC2 instances within a security group.

- Any changes made will take effect immediately.

### Limitations

- You cannot block specific IP addresses using security groups; use NACLs instead.

- You cannot delete the security group that is created by default within a VPC.

## Network ACLs

Network ACLs (NACLs) function at the subnet level. The VPC router hosts the network ACL function.

### Rules

- With NACLs, you can have permit and deny rules.
- Network ACLs contain a numbered list of rules that are evaluated in order from the lowest number until the explicit deny.
- It is recommended to leave spacing between network ACL numbers.
- Network ACLs have separate inbound and outbound rules, and each rule can allow or deny traffic.
- NACLs only apply to traffic that is ingress or egress to the subnet, not to traffic within the subnet.

### Features

- Network ACLs are stateless, so responses are subject to the rules for the direction of traffic.
- A VPC automatically comes with a default network ACL, which allows all inbound/outbound traffic.
- All subnets must be associated with a network ACL. If you don’t do this manually, it will be associated with the default network ACL.
- You can associate a network ACL with multiple subnets; however, a subnet can only be associated with one network ACL at a time.
- You can create custom network ACLs. By default, each custom network ACL denies all inbound and outbound traffic until you add rules.
- Network ACLs do not filter traffic between instances in the same subnet. It is also recommended to have software firewalls installed on your instances.
- Changes to NACLs take effect immediately.

## What is meant by "Security Groups are stateful"?
I went to a movie with my son. During the film, he needed to go to the restroom.

The staff member at the door let him leave the theater and allowed him to re-enter afterwards. This is an example of a stateful request -- he went out and was allowed back in. However, somebody who simply tried to get into the theater would be rejected.

Similarly, your computer at home is connected to a router. The router protects it from the evils of the Internet. Traffic can't come through your router to your computer. However, if you make a request to go to a website, that request goes out of your router and the response is allowed back in because it is stateful. That is, the router remembers that you made the request to that website and it permits the response to come back to your computer.
