### ECS task placement strategy
A task placement strategy is an algorithm for selecting instances for task placement or tasks for termination. When a task that uses the EC2 launch type is launched, Amazon ECS must determine where to place the task based on the requirements specified in the task definition, such as CPU and memory. Similarly, when you scale down the task count, Amazon ECS must determine which tasks to terminate. 

Task placement strategy types:

- **Binpack** – Place tasks based on the least available amount of CPU or memory. This minimizes the number of instances in use and allow you to be cost-efficient. 

- **Random** – Place tasks randomly. You use this strategy when task placement or termination does not matter.

- **Spread** – Place tasks evenly based on the specified value. Accepted values are attribute key-value pairs, instanceId, or host. Spread is typically used to achieve high availability by making sure that multiple copies of a task are scheduled across multiple instances. Spread across Availability Zones is the default placement strategy used for services.

- You can combine different strategy types to suit your application needs.
- Task placement strategies are a best effort.
- **By default, Fargate tasks are spread across Availability Zones.**

### ECS task placement Constraints:
**distinctInstance** is used to make Amazon ECS place tasks on individual instances so that every container is started on a unique instance in your cluster. You can use the distinctInstance placement constraint from the dashboard by selecting “One task per host” in the placement template on the Task Placement panel. Alternatively, if you are using AWS CloudFormation, you can add the following snippet to your CloudFormation template
"placementConstraints": [
    {
        "type": "distinctInstance"
    }
]

**memberOf** describes a set of instances on which your tasks should run. It can be used for running a task, creating a new service, creating a new task definition, or creating a new revision of an existing task definition. It places tasks on the basis of a certain attribute such as ecs.ami-id (the ID of the Amazon Machine Image or AMI used to launch the instance), ecs.instance-type, ecs.availability-zone, ecs.os-type (operating system for the instance), and custom attributes. memberOf is great to specify task placement based on required business logic. You could separate two different variations of tasks (e.g we could place graphic-intensive tasks on a dedicated G3 EC2 instance while placing other memory- and compute-intensive tasks on better-suited instance types).


