- Amazon EventBridge is a serverless, fully managed, and scalable event bus that enables integrations between AWS services, Software as a services (SaaS), and your applications.

- EventBridge was formerly called Amazon CloudWatch Events. Amazon CloudWatch Events and EventBridge are the same underlying service and API, however, EventBridge provides more features.

- EventBridge delivers a stream of real-time data from your applications, SaaS applications, and AWS services to targets such as AWS Lambda functions, HTTP invocation endpoints using API destinations, or event buses in other AWS accounts.

## How EventBridge integration works

The following diagram shows the workflow to integrate your app with EventBridge:

### Events
An event is a real-time change in a system, data, or environment. This change can be either in your application or in an AWS service or a SaaS partner service.

### Event sources
An event source is used to ingest events from a SaaS partner, AWS Services, or your own applications.

### Event buses
An event bus is a pipeline that receives events. Rules associated with the event bus evaluate events as they arrive. Each rule checks whether an event matches the rule’s criteria.

### Event Bus Types:

- Default event bus: Created by default and receives events from any AWS service.
- Custom event bus: Receives events from custom applications you create and must be created manually.
- Partner event bus: Receives events from SaaS partner applications and must be created manually.

### Rules
A rule matches incoming events and sends them to targets for processing. A single rule can send an event to multiple targets, which then run in parallel. Rules are based either on an event pattern or a schedule.

### Targets
A target is a resource or endpoint that EventBridge sends an event to when the event matches the event pattern defined for a rule. The rule processes the event data and sends the pertinent information to the target. To deliver event data to a target, EventBridge needs permission to access the target resource. You can define up to five targets for each rule.

## Usecases:
https://lumigo.io/aws-serverless-ecosystem/amazon-eventbridge/

## Event Bridge Vs SNS
https://medium.com/awesome-cloud/aws-difference-between-amazon-eventbridge-and-amazon-sns-comparison-aws-eventbridge-vs-aws-sns-46708bf5313
