## What is a Placement Group in Amazon EC2?

Placement group is a way to impact the placement of interdependent EC2 instance groups in order to suit your workload requirements. AWS provides three placement strategies which you can use based on the type of your workload:

Firstly, a Rack server, is a computer dedicated to be used as a server and designed to be installed in a framework called a rack. Each rack has its own network and power source.

**In Cluster Placement group**, all instances are placed within a rack. If the rack fails (hardware failure), all instances fails at the same time. Hence, this is not suitable for High Availability or mission critical applications. But ideal for High Performance applications, as all the instances are in very close proximity to each other.

**In Spread Placement group**, each instance is placed in its own distinct rack. Each rack has at most one instance. A rack failure (hardware failure) will not affect more than one instance. Hence, this is ideal for High Availability or mission critical applications. But not really suitable for High Performance applications, as the instances are spread much further apart.

**In Partition Placement group**, each partition represents a rack. If a rack fails (hardware failure), it may affect multiple instances on that rack, but only within that partition. This way, failure of one partition is isolated from the rest of the partitions. So, if you have replication in other partitions, then your data will be safe. This placement group strikes a balance between High Performance and High Availability. This will be good for Big data applications like HDFS, HBase, Cassandra, Kafka, etc. which needs High Performance, but must also be Fault Tolerant at the same time.
## What are the benefits of using placement group?

### Cluster Placement group benefits:

- Recommended for low network latency, and/or high network throughput applications.
- Only specific to a single AZ
- Can span peered VPCs in the same Region

### Partition Placement Group benefits:

- Reduces the impact of correlated hardware failures for your application
- Mainly used to deploy large distributed and replicated workloads, such as HDFS, HBase, and Cassandra, across distinct racks.
- Can have partitions in multiple Availability Zones in the same Region.
- Offer visibility into the partitions using which you can check which instance is in which partition. Topology-aware applications, such as HDFS, HBase, and Cassandra use this information to make intelligent data replication decisions for increasing data availability and durability.

### Spread Placement Group benefits:

- Recommended for applications that have a small number of critical instances that should be kept separate from each other.
- Reduces the risk of simultaneous failures that might occur when instances share the same racks which is not the case in spread placement group
- Can span multiple Availability Zones in the same Region.

## Reference

https://dev.to/aws-builders/working-with-placement-groups-in-amazon-ec2-2eg3
