## References 
https://medium.com/expedia-group-tech/dynamodb-data-modeling-c4b02729ac08

# DynamoDB: Data Modeling

>What is Data Modeling? 

It is the process by which users can configure how their data needs to be organized within the table.

>Why do you need Data Modeling? 

The time taken to store and retrieve data to/from DynamoDB is dependent on how the data is organized. Data modeling helps you organize the data so storage and retrieval operations can be done as fast as possible.

👉 **When you create a DynamoDB table, it is mandatory that you choose an attribute as the Partition Key of the table. This allows DynamoDB to split the entire table data into smaller partitions, based on the Partition Key.**

## What happens in a read request:

**Step 1:** Client sends a read request to DynamoDB

**Step 2:** DynamoDB hashes the Partition Key specified in the request

**Step 3:** DynamoDB looks up the Partition that is responsible for this hash

**Step 4:** DynamoDB routes the request to that specific Partition

**Step 5:** Data is returned back to the Client.


Even though you have data distributed evenly across Partitions, the workload on the table focusses most of the traffic on only one Partition while the other Partitions are relatively unused. This is not desirable.This is called **“Hotspotting”**.

### Guidelines for designing a good Data Model:

👉 One of the ways to avoid “hotspotting”, is to not choose a **low cardinality attribute** as your table’s Partition Key. (Low cardinality means that the column contains a lot of “repeats” in its data range).

👉 Despite that, due to the nature of your workload, if you still face “hotspotting” in your dataset then **“Write Sharding”** might be a good option for you.

#### Using Write Sharding to Distribute Workloads Evenly

One way to better distribute writes across a partition key space in Amazon DynamoDB is to expand the space. You can do this in several different ways. You can add a random number to the partition key values to distribute the items among partitions. Or you can use a number that is calculated based on something that you're querying on.

1. Sharding Using Random Suffixes
2. Sharding Using Calculated Suffixes

**Sharding Using Random Suffixes**

One strategy for distributing loads more evenly across a partition key space is to add a random number to the end of the partition key values. Then you randomize the writes across the larger space.

For example, for a partition key that represents today's date, you might choose a random number between 1 and 200 and concatenate it as a suffix to the date. This yields partition key values like 2014-07-09.1, 2014-07-09.2, and so on, through 2014-07-09.200. Because you are randomizing the partition key, the writes to the table on each day are spread evenly across multiple partitions. This results in better parallelism and higher overall throughput.

However, to read all the items for a given day, you would have to query the items for all the suffixes and then merge the results. For example, you would first issue a Query request for the partition key value 2014-07-09.1. Then issue another Query for 2014-07-09.2, and so on, through 2014-07-09.200. Finally, your application would have to merge the results from all those Query requests.

**Sharding Using Calculated Suffixes**

A randomizing strategy can greatly improve write throughput. But it's difficult to read a specific item because you don't know which suffix value was used when writing the item. To make it easier to read individual items, you can use a different strategy. Instead of using a random number to distribute the items among partitions, use a number that you can calculate based upon something that you want to query on.


