## Read/Write Capacity Mode and Throughput
One read capacity unit = one strongly consistent read per second, or two eventually consistent reads per second, for items up to 4 KB in size.

One write capacity unit = one write per second, for items up to 1 KB in size.

Transactional read requests require two read capacity units to perform one read per second for items up to 4 KB.

Transactional write requests require two write capacity units to perform one write per second for items up to 1 KB.

## Tables

Table Size
There is no practical limit on a table's size. Tables are unconstrained in terms of the number of items or the number of bytes.

Tables Per Account
For any AWS account, there is an initial quota of 2,500 tables per AWS Region.

## Secondary Indexes

Secondary Indexes Per Table
You can define a maximum of 5 local secondary indexes.

There is an initial quota of 20 global secondary indexes per table. 

## Partition Keys and Sort Keys

Partition Key Length
The minimum length of a partition key value is 1 byte. The maximum length is 2048 bytes.

Sort Key Length
The minimum length of a sort key value is 1 byte. The maximum length is 1024 bytes.

## Items

Item Size
The maximum item size in DynamoDB is 400 KB, which includes both attribute name binary length (UTF-8 length) and attribute value lengths (again binary length). The attribute name counts towards the size limit.

## DynamoDB Transactions
DynamoDB transactional API operations have the following constraints:

- A transaction cannot contain more than 25 unique items.
- A transaction cannot contain more than 4 MB of data.

