## DynamoDB TTL

- DynamoDB Time to Live (TTL) enables a per-item timestamp to determine when an item is no longer needed.
- After the date and time of the specified timestamp, DynamoDB deletes the item from the table without consuming any write throughput.
- DynamoDB TTL is provided at no extra cost and can help reduce the data storage by retaining only required data.
- Items are deleted from the table are also removed from any local secondary index and global secondary index in the same way as a DeleteItem operation.

## DynamoDB Cross-region Replication
- DynamoDB cross-region replication allows identical copies (called replicas) of a DynamoDB table (called master table) to be maintained in one or more AWS regions
- Writes to the table will be automatically propagated to all replicas
- Cross-region replication currently supports single master mode. A single master has one master table and one or more replica tables
- Read replicas are updated asynchronously as DynamoDB acknowledges a write operation as successful once it has been accepted by the master table.
-  The write will then be propagated to each replica with a slight delay.

## DynamoDB Global Tables
- DynamoDB Global Tables is a new multi-master, cross-region replication capability of DynamoDB to support data access locality and regional fault tolerance for database workloads.
- Applications can now perform reads and writes to DynamoDB in AWS regions around the world, with changes in any region propagated to every region where a table is replicated.
- Global Tables help in building applications to advantage of data locality to reduce overall latency.
- Global Tables ensures eventual consistency.
- Global Tables replicates data among regions within a single AWS account, and currently does not support cross account access
- Global Tables requires DynamoDB streams enabled with New and Old image setting 

## DynamoDB Streams

- DynamoDB Streams provides a time-ordered sequence of item-level changes made to data in a table.
- DynamoDB Streams stores the data for last 24 hours, after which they are erased.
- DynamoDB Streams maintains ordered sequence of the events per item however sequence across item are not maintained.
- DynamoDB Streams have to be enabled on a per-table basis.
- DynamoDB Streams is designed for No Duplicates, so that every update made to the table will be represented exactly once in the stream.
- DynamoDB streams can be used for multi-region replication to keep other data stores up-to-date with the latest changes to DynamoDB or to take actions based on the changes made to the table

## DynamoDB auto scaling

DynamoDB auto scaling uses the AWS Application Auto Scaling service to dynamically adjust provisioned throughput capacity on your behalf in response to actual traffic patterns. This enables a table or a global secondary index to increase its provisioned read and write capacity to handle sudden increases in traffic without throttling. When the workload decreases, Application Auto Scaling decreases the throughput so that you don’t pay for unused provisioned capacity.

**How Application Auto Scaling works**
- You create a scaling policy for a table or a global secondary index.
- The scaling policy specifies whether you want to scale read capacity or write capacity (or both) and the minimum and maximum provisioned capacity unit settings for the table     or index.

## High availability approaches for databases#
- If possible, choose DynamoDB over RDS because of inherent fault tolerance.
- If DynamoDB can’t be used, choose Aurora because of redundancy and automatic recovery features.
- If Aurora can’t be used, choose Multi-AZ RDS.
- If the database runs on EC2, you have to design the HA yourself.
- Frequent RDS snapshots can protect against data corruption or failure, and they won’t impact the performance of Multi-AZ deployment.
- Regional replication is also an option, but it won’t be strongly consistent.
